# React Native, v3

Course website: <https://kadikraman.github.io/react-native-v3-course/docs/intro/>

Course Repository: <https://github.com/kadikraman/react-native-v3-course-app>

npx create-expo-app --help

Expo is React Native Framework

npx expo lint

yarn add -D prettier eslint-config-prettier eslint-plugin-prettier

module.exports = {
  extends: ['expo', 'prettier'],
  plugins: ['prettier'],
  rules: {
    'prettier/prettier': 'error',
  },
};

yarn lint --fix

div => View

text must be wrapped by Text => render native UI element

better to use ternary for safety

css like styling but different property names

all styles in React Native is flex box

PixelRatio => 3x3 square

Display Point => 1

1 Display Point === 3x3 PixelRatio

global theme file

NativeWind for React Native Tailwind version

button for Button, Pressable, TouchableOpacity

never use Button due to un-customizable

confirmation box => Alert

StyleSheet.absoluteFill

StyleSheet.absoluteFillObject

style={[styles.one, styles.two]}

SVG is not great way to use in native app, expensive to render

preferred small PNGs

npx expo install command ensures installing an SDK-compatible version of the library

yarn install or npm install, which by default would install the latest version of that package

[expo router](https://docs.expo.dev/router/introduction/)

[reactnavigation](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/getting-started)

```bash
npx expo install expo-router react-native-safe-area-context react-native-screens expo-linking expo-constants expo-status-bar
```

the screens and layouts have a default export

Displaying screens in a Stack is the default way to navigate. It means that when you navigate to a new screen, it is rendered on top of the current screen, so you can goBack() to the previous screen to go back.

There are 3 main ways to navigate between screens:

1. Using the Link component
2. Programmatically with the useRouter hook
3. Using the built-in header and bottom tabs button

hipSlop => pressable area

there is no form component in React Native, the inputs are all handled individually.

onChangeText, keyboardType, onSubmitEditing,  returnKeyType prop

Views in native don't scroll by default. Even if we add so many items they're longer than the screen, they will just disappear off the screen. To make a page scrollable, use ScrollView

FlatList is more feature-rich, with built-in pull-to-refresh, scroll-to-index, header and footer support, the most important feature is that it is optimized for rendering large lists. In particular it does not render the components that are nowhere near being seen on your screen.

flex: 1 for long content/text

numberOfLine for truncated text

device's storage

[async-storage](https://react-native-async-storage.github.io/async-storage/docs/usage/)

similar to localStorage on the web

Import LayoutAnimation and call configureNext just before every time we do a state update that changes a list item.

[react-native-reanimated](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/)

Haptic feedback is the little vibration the phone makes in response to certain actions. Using it in the right place at the right time improves the experience of using app. The expo-haptics library has several built-in types of vibration from light to heavy.

A push notification is an alert generated by an application when the application is not open. For mobile apps there are two types of notifications:

- remote notifications are sent to the device from a server using the device push token
- local notifications are scheduled from within the app and send to the current device only

Make sure you background the app. The notification will not appear in the notification tray when the app is foregrounded because foreground notifications are handled separately.
